README.md, before:

![dbExpression](https://dbexpressionpublic.blob.core.windows.net/web/dbex-logo.png)

dbExpression is a Microsoft SQL Server database connector that enables fluent composition and execution of type safe SQL queries directly within compiled code.

## Build Status

[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/hattricklabs/DbEx/_apis/build/status/HatTrickLabs.db-ex?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/hattricklabs/DbEx/_build/latest?definitionId=2&branchName=master)

| Platform            	| Status 					|
| :---------------------| :---------------------------------------------|
|	MSSQL 2017	|	[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/hattricklabs/DbEx/_apis/build/status/HatTrickLabs.db-ex?branchName=master&stageName=Test%20MSSQL%20Platforms&jobName=Test%20MSSQL%202017)](https://dev.azure.com/hattricklabs/DbEx/_build/latest?definitionId=2&branchName=master)	|
|	MSSQL 2019	|	[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/hattricklabs/DbEx/_apis/build/status/HatTrickLabs.db-ex?branchName=master&stageName=Test%20MSSQL%20Platforms&jobName=Test%20MSSQL%202019)](https://dev.azure.com/hattricklabs/DbEx/_build/latest?definitionId=2&branchName=master)	|

## Get dbExpression
| Package            															|  												|
| :-----------------------------------------------------------------------------| :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [HatTrick.DbEx.MsSql](https://www.nuget.org/packages/HatTrick.DbEx.MsSql/)	| ![Nuget](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/HatTrick.DbEx.MsSql)					|
| [HatTrick.DbEx.Tools](https://www.nuget.org/packages/HatTrick.DbEx.Tools/)	| ![Nuget](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/HatTrick.DbEx.Tools)					|
| [HatTrick.DbEx.MsSql.Extensions.DependencyInjection](https://www.nuget.org/packages/HatTrick.DbEx.MsSql.Extensions.DependencyInjection/)	| ![Nuget](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/HatTrick.DbEx.MsSql.Extensions.DependencyInjection)	|

## Why dbExpression?
dbExpression was created to close the gap between application code and raw SQL, bringing Microsoft SQL Server functionality into .NET.  dbExpression isn't centered around object relational mapping (ORM) concepts, but instead focuses on allowing you to write powerful type-checked SQL queries comparable to queries written directly in TSQL.

* **Extensible by design**
* **Fluent** query builder using natural SQL syntax
* **WYSIWYG** - What you write looks like SQL, what we execute looks like SQL
* **Compile-time checking** of SQL queries
* Build queries **without magic strings** or string interpolation
* Tooling to easily keep **application code in sync with database schema**
* **ORM features without the ORM handcuffs**

With dbExpression, the code that handles the basics of pushing and pulling data in and out of your target database is generated via a CLI tool.  The code contains all of the classes and functional plumbing necessary to insert, update, delete and query your data with expressions that live directly within your application code.  When you modify your database in any way, regenerating the code exposes those changes to your application, keeping schema changes in sync with your application code.

With dbExpression, you can easily write queries in code like this:
```c#
//query composed and compiled in c#

dynamic purchases_shipped_by_year = await db.SelectMany(
        dbo.Person.Id,
        (dbo.Person.FirstName + " " + dbo.Person.LastName).As("CustomerName"),
        db.fx.Count(dbo.Purchase.ShipDate).As("ShippedCount"),
        db.fx.DatePart(DateParts.Year, dbo.Purchase.ShipDate).As("ShippedYear")
    )
    .From(dbo.Purchase)
    .InnerJoin(dbo.Person).On(dbo.Purchase.PersonId == dbo.Person.Id)
    .Where(dbo.Purchase.ShipDate != DBNull.Value)
    .GroupBy(
        dbo.Person.Id,
        dbo.Person.FirstName,
        dbo.Person.LastName,
        db.fx.DatePart(DateParts.Year, dbo.Purchase.ShipDate)
    )
    .ExecuteAsync();
```
And here's the SQL statement dbExpression assembled and executed against the target database:
```sql
exec sp_executesql N'SELECT
	[dbo].[Person].[Id]
	,(([dbo].[Person].[FirstName] + @P1) + [dbo].[Person].[LastName]) AS [CustomerName]
	,COUNT([dbo].[Purchase].[ShipDate]) AS [ShippedCount]
	,DATEPART(year, [dbo].[Purchase].[ShipDate]) AS [ShippedYear]
FROM
	[dbo].[Purchase]
	INNER JOIN [dbo].[Person] ON [dbo].[Purchase].[PersonId] = [dbo].[Person].[Id]
WHERE
	[dbo].[Purchase].[ShipDate] IS NOT NULL
GROUP BY
	[dbo].[Person].[Id]
	,[dbo].[Person].[FirstName]
	,[dbo].[Person].[LastName]
	,DATEPART(year, [dbo].[Purchase].[ShipDate])
;',N'@P1 char(1)',@P1=' '
```
- - -

## Use dbExpression
dbExpression is quick and easy to get up and running using two packages available on NuGet:
1) [dbExpression Microsoft SQL Server package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/HatTrick.DbEx.MsSql/)
2) [dbExpression dotnet CLI tool](https://www.nuget.org/packages/HatTrick.DbEx.Tools/)

Jump to the [docs](https://github.com/HatTrickLabs/dbExpression/wiki) for installation and configuration instructions and how to author and execute beautiful queries.

Commit message:

Updated readme to provide better clarity on supported versions.

README.md, after:

![dbExpression](https://dbexpressionpublic.blob.core.windows.net/web/dbex-logo.png)

dbExpression is a Microsoft SQL Server database connector that enables fluent composition and execution of type safe SQL queries directly within compiled code.

**dbExpression supports Microsoft SQL Server versions 2005+.**  

## Build Status

[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/hattricklabs/DbEx/_apis/build/status/HatTrickLabs.db-ex?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/hattricklabs/DbEx/_build/latest?definitionId=2&branchName=master)

Using linux versions of Microsoft SQL Server on Docker images, integration tests are executed against the following versions:

| Platform            	| Status 					|
| :---------------------| :---------------------------------------------|
|	MSSQL 2017	|	[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/hattricklabs/DbEx/_apis/build/status/HatTrickLabs.db-ex?branchName=master&stageName=Test%20MSSQL%20Platforms&jobName=Test%20MSSQL%202017)](https://dev.azure.com/hattricklabs/DbEx/_build/latest?definitionId=2&branchName=master)	|
|	MSSQL 2019	|	[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/hattricklabs/DbEx/_apis/build/status/HatTrickLabs.db-ex?branchName=master&stageName=Test%20MSSQL%20Platforms&jobName=Test%20MSSQL%202019)](https://dev.azure.com/hattricklabs/DbEx/_build/latest?definitionId=2&branchName=master)	|

## Get dbExpression
| Package            															|  												|
| :-----------------------------------------------------------------------------| :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [HatTrick.DbEx.MsSql](https://www.nuget.org/packages/HatTrick.DbEx.MsSql/)	| ![Nuget](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/HatTrick.DbEx.MsSql)					|
| [HatTrick.DbEx.Tools](https://www.nuget.org/packages/HatTrick.DbEx.Tools/)	| ![Nuget](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/HatTrick.DbEx.Tools)					|
| [HatTrick.DbEx.MsSql.Extensions.DependencyInjection](https://www.nuget.org/packages/HatTrick.DbEx.MsSql.Extensions.DependencyInjection/)	| ![Nuget](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/HatTrick.DbEx.MsSql.Extensions.DependencyInjection)	|

## Why dbExpression?
dbExpression was created to close the gap between application code and raw SQL, bringing Microsoft SQL Server functionality into .NET.  dbExpression isn't centered around object relational mapping (ORM) concepts, but instead focuses on allowing you to write powerful type-checked SQL queries comparable to queries written directly in TSQL.

* **Extensible by design**
* **Fluent** query builder using natural SQL syntax
* **WYSIWYG** - What you write looks like SQL, what we execute looks like SQL
* **Compile-time checking** of SQL queries
* Build queries **without magic strings** or string interpolation
* Tooling to easily keep **application code in sync with database schema**
* **ORM features without the ORM handcuffs**

With dbExpression, the code that handles the basics of pushing and pulling data in and out of your target database is generated via a CLI tool.  The code contains all of the classes and functional plumbing necessary to insert, update, delete and query your data with expressions that live directly within your application code.  When you modify your database in any way, regenerating the code exposes those changes to your application, keeping schema changes in sync with your application code.

With dbExpression, you can easily write queries in code like this:
```c#
//query composed and compiled in c#

dynamic purchases_shipped_by_year = await db.SelectMany(
        dbo.Person.Id,
        (dbo.Person.FirstName + " " + dbo.Person.LastName).As("CustomerName"),
        db.fx.Count(dbo.Purchase.ShipDate).As("ShippedCount"),
        db.fx.DatePart(DateParts.Year, dbo.Purchase.ShipDate).As("ShippedYear")
    )
    .From(dbo.Purchase)
    .InnerJoin(dbo.Person).On(dbo.Purchase.PersonId == dbo.Person.Id)
    .Where(dbo.Purchase.ShipDate != DBNull.Value)
    .GroupBy(
        dbo.Person.Id,
        dbo.Person.FirstName,
        dbo.Person.LastName,
        db.fx.DatePart(DateParts.Year, dbo.Purchase.ShipDate)
    )
    .ExecuteAsync();
```
And here's the SQL statement dbExpression assembled and executed against the target database:
```sql
exec sp_executesql N'SELECT
	[dbo].[Person].[Id]
	,(([dbo].[Person].[FirstName] + @P1) + [dbo].[Person].[LastName]) AS [CustomerName]
	,COUNT([dbo].[Purchase].[ShipDate]) AS [ShippedCount]
	,DATEPART(year, [dbo].[Purchase].[ShipDate]) AS [ShippedYear]
FROM
	[dbo].[Purchase]
	INNER JOIN [dbo].[Person] ON [dbo].[Purchase].[PersonId] = [dbo].[Person].[Id]
WHERE
	[dbo].[Purchase].[ShipDate] IS NOT NULL
GROUP BY
	[dbo].[Person].[Id]
	,[dbo].[Person].[FirstName]
	,[dbo].[Person].[LastName]
	,DATEPART(year, [dbo].[Purchase].[ShipDate])
;',N'@P1 char(1)',@P1=' '
```
- - -

## Use dbExpression
dbExpression is quick and easy to get up and running using two packages available on NuGet:
1) [dbExpression Microsoft SQL Server package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/HatTrick.DbEx.MsSql/)
2) [dbExpression dotnet CLI tool](https://www.nuget.org/packages/HatTrick.DbEx.Tools/)

Jump to the [docs](https://github.com/HatTrickLabs/dbExpression/wiki) for installation and configuration instructions and how to author and execute beautiful queries.
